README.md, before:

# OctaveOrpPythonDemo
The purpose of this app is to demonstrate and simulate an external 
 computer sending sensor data via a serial port (UART) to the Octave 
 system

The app was tested on a Windows 10 PC and used a mangOH Yellow / WP7702 
 board as the edge device
 
Python demo runs on serial port connected remote machine

# current demo
Is emulateSystem.py

```
python emulateSystem.py
```
 
 
# Install 

## Clone this repo

```
git clone https://github.com/johnofleek/OctaveOrpPythonDemo
```

## Install Python 2.7
```
https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7/
```

## Install app dependencies
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


## Edit run.py 
Work out which serial port the USB adapter is and edit this line
 (COM8) to suit
```
DEV = os.getenv('DEV', 'COM8')
```

## Run the app from the remote computers (PC)command line

```
python run.py
```

The current app creates the sensor in the Octave system and sends
 one value



## View the running application data flow

The External Python test app is now transacting serial data with
the Octave system 

On the remote computer command line (PC running Python app) the data looks like this

```
C:\Users\john\Documents\Octave\PythonORPclientDemo2\OctaveOrpPythonDemo>python run.py
2019-12-20 16:47:52,440 SbSerial: creating sensor at sensors/set1
2019-12-20 16:47:52,440 SbSerial: sending frame, awaiting s
2019-12-20 16:47:52,525 SbSerial: recv frame: {'status': 'OK', 'responseType': 's'}
2019-12-20 16:47:52,957 SbSerial: checking message {'status': 'OK', 'responseType': 's'}
2019-12-20 16:47:53,158 SbSerial: preparing to send: push json sensors/set1/value {"DissolvedOxygen": 78, "Debris": true, "temperature": 123.2, "flowOut": 11.8, "flowIn": 12.5, "waterLevelLow": false, "Turbidity": 45, "waterLevelHigh": true}
argc: 18
2019-12-20 16:47:53,397 SbSerial: recv frame: {'status': 'OK', 'responseType': 'p'}
loop
```


At the Octave edge (View in Octave web UI https://octave.sierrawireless.io/device/resources )  - note the doesn't work that well in MS edge browser
```
Devices - remote/sensors/set1/value ...
```
 

At the Cloud (View in Octave web UI)
```
{
  "creationDate": 1576860654490,
  "creatorId": "i000000000000000000000001",
  "elems": {
    "remote": {
      "sensors": {
        "set1": {
          "Debris": true,
          "DissolvedOxygen": 78,
          "Turbidity": 45,
          "flowIn": 12.5,
          "flowOut": 11.8,
          "temperature": 123.2,
          "waterLevelHigh": true,
          "waterLevelLow": false
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "generatedDate": 1576860651477,
  "hash": null,
  "id": "e5dfcfbee9ddc52dee6f1a1ac",
  "lastEditDate": null,
  "location": null,
  "metadata": null,
  "path": "/epas_ltd/devices/brianmangohyellow/set_1",
  "streamId": "s5dfcf77f0dcf212031fea3fc",
  "tags": {
  }
}
```


# Further Info

Shouldn't be needed by EPAS

## Octave register device (not reqd EPAS I've done it)

### Config mangOH yellow
Set the switches and connect the internal antenna

* Connect external LTE antenna to MAIN connector  
* Enable external LTE antenna  SW403-5 to ON
* MAIN power switch ON


For Windows host machines Load Sierra driver for WP7702 from https://source.sierrawireless.com/

Power MangOH yellow via USB socket in narrow side of the board

Over AT command port use ati command to retrieve FSN and IMEI

Go to the octave 
https://octave.sierrawireless.io/

Add the device

ssh into the mangOH
After a while attempt a data connection - this seems to speed up the
 provisioning process

```
cm data connect
``` 

This most likely will fail but the Octave web UI probably now indicates
 a provisioned device

## useful commands
SIM ID  
```
at+ccid
+CCID: 89332401000010876791,89033240817620069918070003435626
```

IMEI  
```
at+cgsn
352653090215245
```

Serial number == FSN 
IMEI == IMEI 
```
ati
Manufacturer: Sierra Wireless, Incorporated
Model: WP7702
Revision: SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 c2e98c jenkins 2019/08/30 07:28:21
IMEI: 352653090215245
IMEI SV:  4
FSN: 4L936370140910
+GCAP: +CGSM,+DS
```


## config the octave device from octave backend
set the uart to ORP
https://octave.sierrawireless.io/device/services/remote/UART1




# images

## Stock product
```
ati8
Legato Ver: 19.07.0_c8105fef6769b17540226029a5d23d44
Yocto Ver:  SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 2019-10-08_01:04:54
OS Ver: Linux version 3.18.140 (oe-user@oe-host) (gcc version 7.3.0 (GCC) ) #1 PREEMPT Tue Oct 8 00:58:07 UTC 2019
LK Ver: SWI9X06Y_02.22.12.00
RootFS Ver: SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 2019-10-08_01:04:54
UserFS Ver: unknown
MCU Ver: 002.013
```

```
root@swi-mdm9x28-wp:~# cm info
Device:                        WP7702
IMEI:                          352653090215245
IMEISV:                        4
FSN:                           4L936370140910
Firmware Version:              SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 c2e98c jenkins 2019/08/30 07:28:21
Bootloader Version:            SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 c2e98c jenkins 2019/08/30 07:28:21
MCU Version:                   002.013
PRI Part Number (PN):          9909138
PRI Revision:                  001.001
Carrier PRI Name:              SIERRA
Carrier PRI Revision:          001.027_000
SKU:                           1104405
Last Reset Cause:              Power Down
Resets Count:                  Expected: 9      Unexpected: 0
```



## actual image used for demo

Why? - because the default doesn't support ORP 

Image is 
```
module-2.1.0.wp77xx.spk
```

Programming use windows powershell with this 

```
ls 

Mode                LastWriteTime         Length Name
----                -------------         ------ ----
-a----       28/02/2019     11:09         664056 fdt2.exe
-a----       28/02/2019     10:08        1583608 GobiApi.dll
-a----       19/12/2019     14:57       64543870 module-2.1.0.wp77xx.spk
```
and program mangOH like this

```
./fdt2.exe module-2.1.0.wp77xx.spk
```

### Device after flashing 

```
ati8
Legato Ver: OTVMODULE2.1.0_03288fcd1015098878f8419aa0b052c6
Yocto Ver:  SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 2019-08-30_11:05:02
OS Ver: Linux version 3.18.140 (oe-user@oe-host) (gcc version 7.3.0 (GCC) ) #1 PREEMPT Fri Aug 30 10:01:23 UTC 2019
LK Ver: SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00
RootFS Ver: SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 2019-08-30_11:05:02
UserFS Ver: unknown
MCU Ver: 002.013

```


The ORP app causes a Legato restart the first time ever - there is a delay while the backend syncs - after that it works

# Link to the original app source

https://docs.octave.dev/references/edge/octave_resource_protocol/#source-code-for-the-demo-application-for-southbound-resource-protocol

Commit message:

Added Python 3 version
Python 3 added
An attempt to port to micropython but not working yet

README.md, after:

# OctaveOrpPythonDemo
The purpose of this app is to demonstrate and simulate an external 
 computer sending sensor data via a serial port (UART) to the Octave 
 system

The app was tested on a Windows 10 PC and used a mangOH Yellow / WP7702 
 board as the edge device
 
Python demo runs on serial port connected remote machine

# current demo
Is emulateSystem.py

```
python emulateSystem.py
```
 
or 

```
emSysPybv.py
```

# Physical connection
See the docs folder


# Install 

## Clone this repo

```
git clone https://github.com/johnofleek/OctaveOrpPythonDemo
```

## Python3 version
This is working on a PC - it was developed to investigate the possibility of deploying on micropython. So far this isn't working due to data fragmentation issues


## (Python 2 version) Install Python 2.7
```
https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7/
```

## Install app dependencies
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


## Edit run.py 
Work out which serial port the USB adapter is and edit this line
 (COM8) to suit
```
DEV = os.getenv('DEV', 'COM8')
```

## Run the app from the remote computers (PC)command line

```
python run.py
```

Or what ever version of app you are using

The current app creates the sensor in the Octave system and sends
 one value



## View the running application data flow

The External Python test app is now transacting serial data with
the Octave system 

On the remote computer command line (PC running Python app) the data looks like this

```
C:\Users\john\Documents\Octave\PythonORPclientDemo2\OctaveOrpPythonDemo>python run.py
2019-12-20 16:47:52,440 SbSerial: creating sensor at sensors/set1
2019-12-20 16:47:52,440 SbSerial: sending frame, awaiting s
2019-12-20 16:47:52,525 SbSerial: recv frame: {'status': 'OK', 'responseType': 's'}
2019-12-20 16:47:52,957 SbSerial: checking message {'status': 'OK', 'responseType': 's'}
2019-12-20 16:47:53,158 SbSerial: preparing to send: push json sensors/set1/value {"DissolvedOxygen": 78, "Debris": true, "temperature": 123.2, "flowOut": 11.8, "flowIn": 12.5, "waterLevelLow": false, "Turbidity": 45, "waterLevelHigh": true}
argc: 18
2019-12-20 16:47:53,397 SbSerial: recv frame: {'status': 'OK', 'responseType': 'p'}
loop
```


At the Octave edge (View in Octave web UI https://octave.sierrawireless.io/device/resources )  - note the doesn't work that well in MS edge browser
```
Devices - remote/sensors/set1/value ...
```
 

At the Cloud (View in Octave web UI)
```
{
  "creationDate": 1576860654490,
  "creatorId": "i000000000000000000000001",
  "elems": {
    "remote": {
      "sensors": {
        "set1": {
          "Debris": true,
          "DissolvedOxygen": 78,
          "Turbidity": 45,
          "flowIn": 12.5,
          "flowOut": 11.8,
          "temperature": 123.2,
          "waterLevelHigh": true,
          "waterLevelLow": false
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "generatedDate": 1576860651477,
  "hash": null,
  "id": "e5dfcfbee9ddc52dee6f1a1ac",
  "lastEditDate": null,
  "location": null,
  "metadata": null,
  "path": "/epas_ltd/devices/brianmangohyellow/set_1",
  "streamId": "s5dfcf77f0dcf212031fea3fc",
  "tags": {
  }
}
```


# Further Info

Shouldn't be needed by EPAS

## Octave register device (not reqd EPAS I've done it)

### Config mangOH yellow
Set the switches and connect the internal antenna

* Connect external LTE antenna to MAIN connector  
* Enable external LTE antenna  SW403-5 to ON
* MAIN power switch ON


For Windows host machines Load Sierra driver for WP7702 from https://source.sierrawireless.com/

Power MangOH yellow via USB socket in narrow side of the board

Over AT command port use ati command to retrieve FSN and IMEI

Go to the octave 
https://octave.sierrawireless.io/

Add the device

ssh into the mangOH
After a while attempt a data connection - this seems to speed up the
 provisioning process

```
cm data connect
``` 

This most likely will fail but the Octave web UI probably now indicates
 a provisioned device

## useful commands
SIM ID  
```
at+ccid
+CCID: 89332401000010876791,89033240817620069918070003435626
```

IMEI  
```
at+cgsn
352653090215245
```

Serial number == FSN 
IMEI == IMEI 
```
ati
Manufacturer: Sierra Wireless, Incorporated
Model: WP7702
Revision: SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 c2e98c jenkins 2019/08/30 07:28:21
IMEI: 352653090215245
IMEI SV:  4
FSN: 4L936370140910
+GCAP: +CGSM,+DS
```


## config the octave device from octave backend
set the uart to ORP
https://octave.sierrawireless.io/device/services/remote/UART1




# images

## Stock product
```
ati8
Legato Ver: 19.07.0_c8105fef6769b17540226029a5d23d44
Yocto Ver:  SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 2019-10-08_01:04:54
OS Ver: Linux version 3.18.140 (oe-user@oe-host) (gcc version 7.3.0 (GCC) ) #1 PREEMPT Tue Oct 8 00:58:07 UTC 2019
LK Ver: SWI9X06Y_02.22.12.00
RootFS Ver: SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 2019-10-08_01:04:54
UserFS Ver: unknown
MCU Ver: 002.013
```

```
root@swi-mdm9x28-wp:~# cm info
Device:                        WP7702
IMEI:                          352653090215245
IMEISV:                        4
FSN:                           4L936370140910
Firmware Version:              SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 c2e98c jenkins 2019/08/30 07:28:21
Bootloader Version:            SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 c2e98c jenkins 2019/08/30 07:28:21
MCU Version:                   002.013
PRI Part Number (PN):          9909138
PRI Revision:                  001.001
Carrier PRI Name:              SIERRA
Carrier PRI Revision:          001.027_000
SKU:                           1104405
Last Reset Cause:              Power Down
Resets Count:                  Expected: 9      Unexpected: 0
```



## actual image used for demo

Why? - because the default doesn't support ORP 

Image is 
```
module-2.1.0.wp77xx.spk
```

Programming use windows powershell with this 

```
ls 

Mode                LastWriteTime         Length Name
----                -------------         ------ ----
-a----       28/02/2019     11:09         664056 fdt2.exe
-a----       28/02/2019     10:08        1583608 GobiApi.dll
-a----       19/12/2019     14:57       64543870 module-2.1.0.wp77xx.spk
```
and program mangOH like this

```
./fdt2.exe module-2.1.0.wp77xx.spk
```

### Device after flashing 

```
ati8
Legato Ver: OTVMODULE2.1.0_03288fcd1015098878f8419aa0b052c6
Yocto Ver:  SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 2019-08-30_11:05:02
OS Ver: Linux version 3.18.140 (oe-user@oe-host) (gcc version 7.3.0 (GCC) ) #1 PREEMPT Fri Aug 30 10:01:23 UTC 2019
LK Ver: SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00
RootFS Ver: SWI9X06Y_02.32.02.00 2019-08-30_11:05:02
UserFS Ver: unknown
MCU Ver: 002.013

```


The ORP app causes a Legato restart the first time ever - there is a delay while the backend syncs - after that it works

# Link to the original app source

https://docs.octave.dev/references/edge/octave_resource_protocol/#source-code-for-the-demo-application-for-southbound-resource-protocol
